Hey there, and welcome to Soul Church.
Our prayer is that this message encourages you wherever you may be in life.
We've been hearing so many stories about what God is doing in people's lives, and we'd love to hear yours.
So take a second and send your story to stories at soulchurch.com.
Thanks again for joining us today, and we hope that you enjoy the message.
God bless.
Well, so good to see you in church, to those watching online, to those in the building.
You got through the elements and got to church.
We had no snow where we lived and we came in and it was covered in white and it's old church.
So good.
Well done for making it out today.
And I hope you've had a fantastic Christmas.
It's still Christmas.
We're still in the 12 days of Christmas.
Who's hanging on to Christmas two days?
Yeah, some Christmas people here.
Old school.
The tree's still up.
Looks like it needs a bit of love, but the tree's still up.
trees still hanging in there.
Well, welcome to our online community.
Maybe the weather kept you away today, but we're great to have you with us.
Can we just thank all of our viewers online?
Great to have you worshiping.
Droppers align in the chat.
Let us know where you're watching from.
Our team will be on hand to respond.
You've got any prayer requests at any point.
And I'm going to invite all the young people you guys going to head up to your seats.
So good to see you all.
Let's give our youth a hand.
And we're a warm and friendly church.
So if you want to, those in the room, why don't you turn around?
We're so near your happy new year.
And then you can begin to find your seats.
You're way.
The promise keeping God.
He won't fail you.
Amen.
Well, why don't you take your seats?
Thank you to the worship team, all of our dream team, those who service faithfully.
Been here since 6.30 this morning, salting the path, salting all the car park guys.
Can we thank everyone for their service?
I want to extend a special warm welcome to Maggie and Derek from Norcross, Georgia.
Would you guys just stand?
We just want to say how much we love you both.
And Maggie and Derek Watson, lifelong friends.
We appreciate you, Derek.
I wrote a bicycle once in his pool when I was 15, Torres liner.
He's never forgiven me.
But this is your public apology.
All right.
You're ready for the word of God.
From time to time, we keep going, don't we?
And it happens to all of us.
We keep going and going and before we realize it, we're not quite as effective as we used to be.
Coming to church can just feel like another service.
We can lose our passion for our personal daily devotion.
We seem to take everything personally.
We can simply lose our edge.
King Solomon wrote this in Ecclesiastes chapter 10, verse 10.
If the axe is dull and one does not sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength, but wisdom brings success.
Who knows if we're going to see success this year?
It's going to require wisdom.
I heard a story of an annual lumberjack competition.
And the final was between an older experienced lumberjack and a younger, stronger lumberjack.
The rule of the competition was quite simple.
Whoever could fell the most trees in a day was the winner.
The younger lumberjack was full of enthusiasm, went into the wood and set to work straight away.
He worked all through the day and all through the night.
As he worked, he could hear the older lumberjack working in another part of the forest, and he felt more and more confident with every tree he felled that he would win.
At regular intervals throughout the day, the noise of the trees being felled coming from the other parts of the forest would stop.
The younger lumberjack took part from this
Knowing this meant the older lumberjack was taking a rest, whereas he could use his superior youth and strength and stamina to keep going.
At the end of the competition, the younger lumberjack felt confident he'd won.
He looked in front of him at the piles of felled trees that were a result of his superhuman effort.
At the medal ceremony, he stood on the podium confident to be awarded the prize of champion lumberjack.
Next to him stood
the older lumberjack who looked surprisingly less exhausted than he felt.
When the results were read out, he was devastated to hear that the older lumberjack had chopped down significantly more trees than he had.
He turned to the old lumberjack and said, how can this be?
I heard you take a rest every hour and I work continuously through the night.
Once more, I am stronger and fitter than you old man.
The older lumberjack turned to him and said, every hour,
I took a break to rest and sharpen my saw.
You know what, we regain our edge in life the same way as the old lumberjack by stopping what we're doing from time to time and applying the right tools.
Tomorrow we head into a season of 21 days of prayer and fasting, the church.
And prayer and fasting is simply applying the right tools
so that we can accomplish more in 2026.
I believe that 2026 is set to be your greatest year yet, and I believe it's set to be our church's greatest year yet.
But we have to regain our edge.
How do we do that with prayer and fasting?
All the greats of the Bible, Moses, David, Daniel, Nehemiah, Elisha, Paul, Peter,
Even Jesus himself took time to pray and fast.
Jesus would not have been able to accomplish what he did on earth had he not started a 40-day fasting and prayer before he started his public ministry.
Prayer and fasting is a crucial discipline in a believer's walk with God.
Out of 365 days, 21 days is not a long time to break from our routine
and sharpen the axe to have an experience and a fresh encounter with God.
And I believe this 21 days will set us up for 2026.
Someone asked me a few weeks ago what prayer and fasting accomplishes in a believer's life.
And the response was pretty simple.
It brings us closer to God.
It draws us in.
Fasting is not a requirement of a Christian, it's choice.
We choose to break away from our daily routines to draw closer to God.
I choose whether I draw close to Chantel, it's a choice.
And fasting is a short-term season that releases long-term rewards in our life.
And what we do is we feed our spirit by neglecting our flesh.
And it's pretty much the opposite to what we've been doing for the last 21 days, if you're anything like me.
We've been feeding our spirit and maybe neglecting, sorry, feeding our flesh and neglecting our spirits.
And our lives are constantly being driven by our flesh, what we feel, what we taste, what we want.
We like to be driven by our feelings yet fasting and praying has been driven by the spirit of God.
Three things that Jesus taught us to do in Matthew chapter six.
And they progressively get harder.
They're three things that I think all believers struggle with.
And he frames them the same way.
In Matthew chapter six verse one, it says, when you give, he teaches us to give.
Matthew chapter six verse six, it says, when you pray.
And then in Matthew chapter six verse 16, it says, when you fast.
None of these are requests.
Jesus is specifying that as Christians, we're required to give.
The three hardest things in our life to give is our money, our time, prayer is time, and our stomachs, fasting.
Who would agree that there were three challenging things you can do?
And Jesus challenges us in one of his opening sermons.
He challenges us as believers in Christ to give,
of our money, pray, which is our time and fast, which is our stomachs.
And I think the hardest thing is the fast.
It's the hardest thing because sometimes it's easy just to give some money and make yourself feel better.
But actually, Jesus is saying as a follower of Christ is to give, to pray and to fast.
And I believe that the supernatural power of God
can be at work in our lives this year.
This is actually a formula for success.
As we give, as we let go of our finances and so into the kingdom, as we pray, as we give of our time, and as we fast, as we let go of our flesh and hold onto his spirit, I believe what happens is we will draw closer to God and we will hear his heart for our lives.
We're hearing so much noise in our world.
There's so many things that are coming at us.
But this is an opportunity for us to lay down social media, lay down some electronics, lay down some of those things that can distract us and actually hear the voice of God.
So I want to encourage you, first of all, when it comes to praying and fasting, number one is you've got to make your mind up.
At the start of 2026, I'm regaining my edge.
Who wants to regain their edge?
So easy to lose your edge in any area of life.
in business, in finances, in your marriage, you can lose your edge, because you can just keep going and going and going and going like that young lumberjack, but you haven't stopped to apply the right tools.
And when we apply the right tools to our lives, I believe we can see change in success.
Someone said to me, but John, you don't understand, I'm a foodie.
I've never met someone who's not a foodie.
We all love food, okay?
That's why Jesus said it, isn't it?
You know, we all think we need more money, we all think we need more time, we all think we need more food.
That's why Jesus, he challenged all three things in one chapter.
But food is the hardest.
You say, John, well, I'm not sure, you know, test it, test it.
It's amazing when you put some of the luxury food items away and you start hearing the voice of God, he starts speaking to you.
You've got to make your mind up.
You don't commit to a run to run a marathon after the gun is fired.
You've got to make a decision before.
Second is you've got to take action.
And I believe as a church, I believe there's been lots of reasons that our church is where it's at.
But the last 13 years for the first, pretty much the first 21 days of the new year, we've always prayed them fast as a church.
And I believe the results speak for themselves.
You know, we're blessed to be in this building.
We're blessed, aren't we?
Who would agree we're blessed with this?
But you know the most expensive part of this building?
It's what's beneath your feet, the foundations.
No one's ever complimented me on them.
No one's ever walked in and said, John, the foundations are just fantastic.
How you've, how you negotiated with the architect and design those?
No, no, no, no.
Because they're the bits that no one sees, but who knows without a foundation, when that storm blew in last week, we wouldn't have a building.
We're standing on a firm foundation today.
Do you know, this next 21 days is the foundation for your 2026 because storms will blow in to 2026.
There will be challenges.
And so the decision is, what am I standing on?
And we, we want as a church to stand on the foundation of prayer and fasting and
You've heard it said, I don't know who originally said it, but if you do something you've never done before, you'll see things you've never seen before.
And I really believe that in our lives.
If you do something at the start of this year that you've never done before, I believe God's going to show you things you've never seen before.
So number one, you've got to make your mind up.
Number two, take action.
Number three, commit to prayer.
Fasting without prayer is a diet.
Okay, and there's lots of dietary options out there for you.
But I would encourage you to speak to God in these next 21 days.
Build that closeness with God.
In the moment you feel hungry, speak to God.
What about if I just pray, John, isn't that enough?
Well, the Bible talks about the certain things that will not shift without fasting.
Mark 929 says, this can't come out.
This kind can come out by nothing.
but prayer and fasting.
Could there be some things in our lives that are ready to shift, but God is waiting for us to draw close to Him?
We hear His voice.
He then gives us the wisdom to make the right decisions.
It's when we hear His voice.
I believe that the UK knowledge needs a move of God.
This nation has never needed a move of God like is happening.
Next month, we've got an incredible speaker.
Pete Greg is, some of you know Pete Greg from the prayer net where he's going to be coming and doing a prayer night on the first Sunday, a prayer day on the first Sunday of February and we're going to call all the churches in our city on the night to pray and we're going to seek God.
We're going to seek God because I believe that the only thing we have left now is prayer.
The only thing we have left for this nation is prayer.
And if we think we're just going to drift for another year, no, no, we've got to seek the heart of God.
We've got to seek the face of God.
We've got to come with expectation and believe that God is going to move in our city once more.
Number four is you've got to stick to the plan.
Temptation in the form of a cheeky Chinese or a chocolate bar will come your way.
But we've got to have a determination.
We're going to stick to the plan.
So I want to encourage you, we're going to hand out these little prayer and fasting cards right now.
Thank you to the host team.
Those who are watching online, they'll be available on our website.
You can download those over the next few days.
But would you join us as we sharpen our axes for 2026?
So we set aside from January the 5th tomorrow or midnight tonight to January the 25th, which is our
Vision Sunday, and Vision Sunday is our annual service where Chantal and I cast fresh vision over the church for the coming 12 months.
And we want to step into Vision Sunday on a firm foundation.
So we've given you this little brochure.
There's a little intro into why are we fast and some prayers to pray.
We're going to pray the prayer of Jabes in the morning, Sam for the day, which is on your right hand side of the brochure, and then a prayer of gratitude in the evening.
which we've written, and on the back talking about why we fasten the things I've talked about today, and then practical tips to fasting, different ways you can fast.
And I will just say, make sure you follow medical advice with fasting.
There's different ways to fast as to pass your fast, the full fast, the Daniel fast, the intermittent fast, electronics fast, but I think that every person can do something and we can see a shift
in at these next few days.
And so there's also a website in there for more information around prayer and fasting.
So who's gonna join us for these 21 days?
And I would encourage you, don't be telling everyone what you're doing, okay?
Fasting it is between you and God, okay?
Don't be the chocolate police telling everyone what they should and shouldn't be doing.
But fasting is between you and God.
I know he's going to speak to all of you.
So should we pray?
Would you hold your brochure if you have it?
Would you just hold it in your hand?
Father, we thank you.
We thank you for this opportunity to draw close to you over these next 21 days.
And I pray, Lord, as we as we neglect our flesh, our spirit would come alive and your spirit would speak to us.
I pray that you would challenge us in certain areas of our lives.
I pray that you'd give us direction.
I pray that you'd open doors.
Lord, these next 21 days, Father, would be just 21 days where you'd reveal the heart of God to our church, to every person, to every child, young person, adult, senior Father, you would just reveal your heart afresh.
We pray for wisdom that you would show as things, Father.
Keep us strong, Father.
Keep us strong.
We commit to this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
All right, got a few hours to eat those last few quality street up before.
Well, I'm just gonna share a few thoughts with us for this coming year, and then we're gonna pray, and we're gonna anoint every person with oil, which symbolizes the presence of God as we head into this new year.
As I was seeking God this week for the first message of the year, I felt God
speak to me personally, but it's a thought I want to share with you to raise my expectation for 2026, to raise my expectation.
And here's what I've discovered is the expectation changes experience, expectation.
And as the world is expecting the worst, the doom and the gloom in the media right now for this year is hard to watch and hard to listen to.
But I believe as children of God, we've got to keep believing for the best.
We've got to keep expecting the best.
I believe that God is going to turn around some situations in your life this year.
God's going to turn around some business scenarios.
God's going to free some people from addictions.
But we've got to keep believing and have greater level of expectation for 2026.
Turn to the person beside you and say, I'm expecting.
Some of you husbands weren't expecting to hear your wife say that today.
All right.
Now for some of you, you're visiting back from the wonder and we want to say great to have you here.
For others of you, you're new to faith and so the Bible and prayer and fasting and all these things are completely new to you so your head's probably spinning.
But I just wanted to share a thought
The Bible is divided into two sections.
Maybe you've only just picked up the Bible or maybe you've been picking up for you, but the Bible's divided into the Old Testament and the New Testament.
The simplest way to understand it is the Old Testament tells the first part of the story and the New Testament is written much later and finishes the story.
The last book of the Old Testament, the first section is the book called Malachi.
And the first book of the New Testament is a book called Matthew, Matthew's Gospel.
But the gap between the last book of the Old Testament and the first book of the New Testament is 400 years.
And in those 400 years, we don't have any information about what happened on earth.
We've got no gospel, we've got no testament.
All we have is quiet.
That's 146,000 days of silence.
Six generations came and went.
And the Jews were waiting for their Messiah.
their deliverer to come and free them from the Roman Empire.
I wonder how you or I would respond when we've been promised something, but it hadn't been delivered.
Who knows if you promise you kid something, you've got to deliver.
If not, they nag you till you do.
If you've been made a promise and it's not delivered, we get impatient, we can get frustrated, we can feel let down.
And eventually what happens is we give up, we give up, we lose confidence.
But this is what was said of the Jewish people as they waited for their Messiah.
Remember 400 years of waiting.
And here's what we read in Luke chapter three, verse 15.
It says, the people were in expectation and are all questioning in their hearts concerning John, whether he might be the Christ.
When all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also was baptized.
And while he prayed, the heaven was opened and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove upon him.
And a voice came from heaven which said, you are my beloved son, and you I am well pleased.
The Jewish people waited in expectation.
Could this be the one to deliver them from
occupation of the Romans, economic and political oppression.
But it said this, it said, when the people were in expectation, then the Holy Spirit descended.
I wonder whether expectation attracts the Holy Spirit in our lives.
Are we heading into 2026
with a spirit of trepidation or a spirit of expectation.
Because the Bible is clear here, when there was expectation, the Holy Spirit descended.
Who knows we need a fresh touch of the Holy Spirit to descend on our city and our nation at this time?
Where did it begin when the children of God were in expectation?
I wonder if heaven is saying this afternoon,
The people of soul church are in expectation.
I want to title this message.
I stole it from Charles Dickens.
Great expectations.
My prayer is that the Holy Spirit would release great expectations over you for this new year.
I woke up this week saying, God, I want 2026 to be a supernatural year.
We want to see a breakout of miracles in our church.
God has done some miracles to a certain level, but we're believing that God is going to do something exceedingly and abundantly
above.
But how does it start?
It changes when the people lift their expectations.
When they have great expectations for what God is going to do.
I don't just want to go through the routine, the rhythm of another year, another service, another well-being Wednesday, another chapel service, another staff meeting.
We've got to have a greater expectation that God can do something supernatural in our lives.
When the people are in expectation, the holy
spirit to send it.
We've got to lift our expectation.
Maybe our city can be saved.
Say that again.
The picture I have in my head of dancing outside City Hall, the whole street in front of City Hall with laughter and joy and dancing in the streets.
I've got this thing
I can't shake it.
I don't know how it's going to happen or when it's going to happen, but I've got an expectation that choose joy.
It wasn't just a word for the soul church.
It was a word for this season.
The joy is going to return to the streets.
The Spirit of the Lord God is going to fall again on this city.
There will be one more great Reformation.
There will be one more great revival, but it starts when we change our expectation.
It starts with expectation.
So the question is, what are you expecting this year?
What do you expectations?
Because if the Holy Spirit is going to move in this city, He's looking for someone who's expecting.
We walk into church with our hands and our pockets, our arms crossed.
God, what have you got for me today?
We've got to walk in with the prayer of expectation.
We're going to walk into work, into university, into college.
God can transform the University of East Anglia.
God can transform the art college.
God can transform the city college.
God can move in the schools.
God can move.
There can be an outpouring at the Holy Spirit like we have never seen in this city, but it starts with the spirit of expectation.
So what do we do?
We've got a shift how we speak, how we pray.
Our outlook for this year.
I get it.
The outlook's not good and natural in the natural terms.
But we can change the way we speak about it.
You know, turning up to church actually doesn't please God.
Turning up with expectation does.
I loved it here on New Year's Eve.
You don't come to church at 11 p.m. unless you're expecting God to move.
You don't.
You just stay in bed or stay watching a movie.
But the expectation in here, 11 p.m. on Wednesday night, I thought we'd have to buy a new roof.
Because the spirit of God was just, because everybody arrived with expectation.
They weren't waiting for someone to entertain us or speak to us.
They arrived with a sense of God, I'm ready to cross over.
I'm ready to go into a new year.
I'm ready to lift up my, you know, we've got to treat every Sunday like it's Resurrection Sunday.
It's amazing on Easter Sunday, you guys come expecting.
We've got to come to church expecting, we're expecting salvation, supernatural healings.
We've got to expect people to find God in a new and real way this year.
Expectation.
Teen challenge, I just want you to know we love you boys.
And I've got an expectation this year that God is going to do something exceedingly and abundantly in your life.
My expectation is you're going to break free from some of those things that have held you back.
My expectation is you're going to be reunited with family.
My expectation is God's going to use your story mightily for the kingdom of God.
You've got to lift your expectation for what God can do.
Give me a wave of your business owner, small business owner, large business owner, dreaming of being a business owner.
It doesn't matter.
Wonder what your expectation is for this year.
Wonder if you read the headlines and you've put your expectation down into the ground.
Lift your eyes to the hills.
Come on, lift your eyes to the hills.
That's where your help comes from.
The business is going to sell.
There's going to be a breakthrough coming.
There's contracts arriving, but we've got to change our expectation for the new year is when we change our expectation, the Holy Spirit begins to hover and move over those businesses.
You know, the opposite to expectation is unbelief, but the very essence of unbelief in the faith is expectations.
I believe in today as we pray, you know, we could have not stopped the last service because the Spirit of God was moving so powerfully.
Wouldn't it be amazing if some services this year just kept going and going and going because God's Spirit was so tangible.
And I know we've got big crowds, but
when to be amazing if people were just so hungry they didn't even mind if they didn't get in the big room because they were just happy to be around the presence of God.
The glory of God filled the room and people being drawn from the roads, people were being drawn.
Do you know that highway was blocked on New Year's Eve?
People like what is going on?
Because the city on a hill could not be hidden as we drove up and we saw Jesus hope of the world.
Suddenly our expectation lifted that this was going to be a great year.
We've got to expect people to be free from mental health situations.
We've got to expect addictions to be broken.
We've got to expect blessing over our families.
So what have you accepted and stopped expecting in your life?
We're not here to settle.
We're here to expect God to move.
So I want to just share really quickly the next four and a half hours, three ways to live with a spirit of expectation.
three ways to live the spirit of great expectations.
Number one is this, you've got to pray in expectation.
It says in verse 21, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus was also baptized while he prayed the heavens were opened.
The first thing Jesus did, after his baptism, he prayed in expectation.
Look what happened when he prayed, the heavens opened.
The heavens opened.
Could the heavens open again over the city?
We're going to pray.
We're going to pray one more time before our Lord returns that the heavens will open again over this nation, over this nation, over Europe.
We watch Chantal and I and the family watch the Bonhoeffer movie on Amazon Prime last night.
And it's free to watch if you've got Amazon, but I encourage you to watch the movie Bonhoeffer.
It's about a pastor who
gave his life the cause of the Kingdom of God, sacrificed his life around 80 years ago.
And I was stirred again.
I was stirred on a few levels, but I was stirred.
I've got to stand for my faith.
I've got to stand for truth.
We've got to stand for righteousness.
But Bonhoeffer, he was a man who loved to pray.
and he would seek God.
And the Nazis heard him praying and they were getting touched and filled with the Spirit of God outside his prison cell as he sought God and he heard him.
And he was leading Nazis to the Lord in his prison cell simply because he prayed.
Because when you pray, here's what happens.
The heavens open.
and anybody under that open heaven will get a touch of the presence of God.
I would encourage you as you seek God and as you pray, the heavens will open over your business.
The heavens will open over your children.
The heavens are open.
Do not accept your present circumstances as your future circumstances.
You've got to ask God, say, God, help me believe and speak and pray in expectation.
Number two, we've got to be united in expectation.
It says the people were in expectation.
It doesn't say the individual, it said the people together.
They were united in spirit.
There's never been a time for the church to be united.
Can I just say this?
Do not allow the small things that we disagree on in this church to divide us.
The enemy wants to find the small little things.
It's the small foxes that spoil the vineyard.
Do not allow the small little political things, the social things.
Do not allow those things to divide the cross of Christ in this church.
Chantal and I, we will not allow it.
We're going to stay focused on the cause of Jesus.
He's my rock.
He's my fortress.
The people were an expectation.
The people.
Be careful who you hang out with this year.
If you've got a negative cynical, conspiring spirit, a jaded spirit, ask the Holy Spirit to help you.
If you're holding on to anything against any person in this room, put it right quickly.
I'm just talking to you as your pastor, not your friend right now.
Put it right quickly.
Go to them and put it right.
Because if we're not united, the Holy Spirit won't descend on our church.
Deal with it.
Get counsel, get prayer, get support, but work through it.
Come out the other side because this is a united front.
Soul Church, we are a united front and we are going.
Does it mean we don't have differences?
Of course we have differences.
Okay?
I get your emails.
I love them.
Okay?
But let's stay united.
on the cause of Jesus Christ.
Let's keep seeing people find Jesus.
Let's keep bringing the hope to this city, the hope to this county.
Let's keep seeing what God wants to do, but it comes with a united front.
Amen.
Put your hand up if you believe Jesus is the way, the truth and the life.
Should we stick to that?
The cross of Jesus unites us.
All right.
Praying expectation, united expectation, number three.
Listen and expectation.
This is when the people are in expectation.
Look what happens next.
It says a voice came from heaven.
Why are we praying and fasting?
Come back to where we started because we want to draw close to God and we want to hear his voice.
I've loved the last few days.
It's been great extra time with family and friends and Chantel and I have done a lot of reading and devotion and just praying and believing God for
for our church for this coming year, and we're spending two days away for the next two days at a conference.
Again, we're going away Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday to hear from God.
But here's the thing I want to say.
We've got to listen with expectation.
God wants to speak to you and me this year.
There's a voice waiting to speak to us.
Sometimes that voice is through his word.
So many times it's through his word.
When we open the book, God speaks to us.
You know, other times it can be for a past or a preacher.
Other times it can be a friend.
Sometimes it can be through nature.
Sometimes it can be through something that's said in a secular world, but actually God uses it to speak to you.
So God can speak in so many different ways.
But the question isn't, is God speaking?
The question is, is, am I listening?
Am I listening to the voice of God?
believe over these next 21 days that God is going to clearly speak to some people about their future.
For some of you, it's going to be about relationships.
For others of you, it's going to be about dreams.
God's give me a specific word next week to sow into our church, which can be a challenging word, but it's going to enlarge us as a church as we start this new year.
But we've got to listen with expectation.
We go into tomorrow.
God, I want to hear your voice.
The most repeated phrase in the New Testament is he that has an ear, let him hear.
I want to hear from God.
We don't want to preach one sermon, start one new ministry, have one conversation that is not directed from the Holy Spirit this year.
My expectation is goodness and mercy will follow us all the days of our lives.
I guess that means 2026.
My expectation this year is health.
My expectation this year is that my body will age and not decay.
Who's going to join me on that this year?
My body will age.
We can't stop aging, but we can stop decaying.
Come on, let's declare it.
So many people in walking in awe have been sick all over Christmas.
I said, come on, let's claim health in Jesus name.
Stop declaring sickness over your body and start having an expectation that God is a healer.
Speak life over your children.
Life over your children.
Life over your finances.
This is the year of blessing.
My God will supply all your needs according to His riches in glory and expectation that God will take care of you and your children and your family and your loved ones this year.
So right now I want us to stand because we're going to practice these.
I've changed this verse a little bit, I'm sorry.
The people of soul church were in expectation.
The people of soul church, that's you and I, were in expectation.
Then, then, who needs a then?
Who needs a then moment right now?
Then the Holy Spirit descended.
So right now we're gonna pray in expectation, lift your hands right now, all over this room.
Pray right now, whatever you're worrying about, whatever cares and concerns, whatever's holding you, whatever's gripping you, pray in expectation right now.
That house is gonna sell in Jesus' name.
Pray in expectation.
Your body is gonna line itself with God's word.
Your mind is whole in Jesus' name.
In Jesus' name.
The contract will be signed in Jesus' name.
Thank you, Lord, we believe and we pray in expectation.
Thank you, Jesus.
Now we're gonna unite in expectation.
If you're holding on to anything right now, with the help of the Holy Spirit,
I want you to let it go in Jesus' name, holding on to anything.
Maybe it was a word spoken over you, maybe someone owes you something, maybe someone should have done something but they didn't.
The power of the Holy Spirit, He wants to unite you.
Don't allow anything to stand between you and your future.
And then we've got to listen and expectation.
Just pause and listen to the Holy Spirit.
Thank you, Jesus.
Thank you all.
Be still and know that He is God.
Jesus.
He gives strength to the weary.
He increases the power of the weak.
Those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength.
They will soar on wings like eagles.
They will run and not grow weary.
They will walk, and they'll faint.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
When you pass through the rivers, they will not sweep over you.
You will walk through the fire and you will not be burned.
The flames will not set you ablaze.
Says the Lord.
Amen.
I've written a declaration for this year.
It'll go up on the line so you can take a copy, but I wanted you to declare this out because what I've just spoken, I've put this into a declaration and I want you to use this
as a way just to speak faith over your future, over your 2026.
Is that okay?
Okay, I'm going to read a line.
I want you to repeat it after me.
You ready?
In 2026, I walk as a child of God.
I boldly confess the Word of God over every area of my life.
I live under an open heaven and I expect God's favor, protection,
and blessings over my family and my loved ones.
My family, my home, and my possessions are divinely protected from every accident, incident, injury, disease, illness, and financial loss.
I expect circumstances to align in my favor because I am a child of God
I expect to be healthy, physically fit and strong.
I will age, but not decay.
My strength is renewed and my body responds to the life of God within me.
I am the head and not the tail.
I am above only and not beneath.
I am the lender and not the borrower.
I wait in confident expectation for your Holy Spirit to release miracles, breakthroughs and divine opportunities over my life.
I choose the spirit of expectation this week, this year and every day of 2026.
Amen.
Right now, maybe a friend invited you to church.
Maybe you've come back off the back of the wonder.
Maybe you're just checking it out because you see the way the world is going and you heard that there's some light on Hartsey's Lane and you were attracted to it.
A friend, however you've got here today is irrelevant.
The fact is you're here and God loves you.
God's got a plan for you.
God sent his one and only son Jesus to this earth as a baby as we've just remembered at Christmas, but he lived.
He died a cruel death on a cross.
He was crucified.
But three days later, he rose again.
And on that cross, he took your sin, your shame, your guilt.
He took everything you've ever done.
And he said, I take that pain.
I take that sin for you because he loves you.
God's got a plan for your life.
Maybe you've never heard this for a long time, but he loves you.
He loves you.
But you've got to make a decision to receive that love, because that love is a gift.
And gifts have to be received as well as given.
Well, that gift is freely given today.
The question is, will it be freely received?
Maybe you once walked with God, but you've walked away.
Life's taken you down a different path.
Well, today you can come back.
And you too can live with great expectations for your future.
It starts with a decision.
January the 4th, 2026 can be a life transforming day in your life.
It can be a day that you'll remember forever if you make that decision today to receive his love and receive his grace.
Friend, God's got a plan for your future.
All you have to do is receive that gift today.
So I'm going to count to three from the floor on the tiered seats,
Those watching online, you say John today, I wanna receive that gift of forgiveness, of life, of purpose.
All I want you to do is just slip up your hand, say John, would you pray for me?
Every Christian praying with expectation right now.
Let's believe for people to find Christ.
I'm gonna count to three, one, two, three.
Just slip up your hand and say pray for me.
God bless you, God bless you, God bless you.
Beautiful, lift it up nice and high.
God bless you.
All right, you can put your hands down.
We're going to say this prayer out loud together.
Dear Lord Jesus, thank you for dying for me to forgive all my sins and failures.
I believe that you rose from the dead so that I can have a brand new life.
Please come into my heart and help me by the power of the Holy Spirit to trust and to live for you.
Amen.
Can we congratulate everyone who's prayed that salvation prayer?
We want to give you a gift.
If you prayed that prayer, or maybe you didn't lift up your hand, the hand really bit is irrelevant.
It's just so I know who I'm praying for.
This is Gemma down here.
It gives a wave, Gemma.
And we want to give you a gift at the end of the service.
As soon as we conclude, just head over to this little chapel area.
We want to give you a gift.
It's the Bible.
And we want to help you as you take your next step.
But that's the greatest decision that you can ever make with your life.
And you can now live with great expectations for your days ahead.
Amen.
Fantastic.
Thanks again for tuning in.
If you said yes to Jesus today by saying the Salvation Prayer, we'd love for you to email connections at soulchurch.com.
So we can talk to you a little bit more about this incredible decision you've just made.
And if at any point in the service, you felt moved to give towards any of our local or global initiatives, head to soulchurch.com.
And don't forget to stay connected with us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube by searching at Soul Church UK.
Take care and God bless.